AI User Behavior Prediction Project
Overview

This project involves predicting user behavior using machine learning techniques. We leverage data analysis, feature engineering, and model tuning to achieve the best results. The project implements a Random Forest Classifier to predict user behavior and fine-tunes its hyperparameters for optimal accuracy.
Dataset

The dataset used in this project contains various features related to user behavior patterns. It is assumed to be pre-processed and split into training and test sets. For confidentiality reasons, the dataset is not included in this repository, but placeholders for the data are provided.
Key Steps:

    Data Preprocessing:
        Data cleaning and handling of missing values.
        Feature scaling and normalization.

    Feature Engineering:
        Identification of the most important features.
        Transformation of categorical data into numerical formats.

    Model Building:
        Implemented a Random Forest Classifier as the primary model.
        Conducted hyperparameter tuning using GridSearchCV to find the best model configuration.

    Model Tuning:
        The best parameters identified were:
            n_estimators: 50
            min_samples_split: 10
            min_samples_leaf: 4
            max_features: 'sqrt'
            max_depth: 10

    Model Evaluation:
        Achieved 100% accuracy with the tuned Random Forest model.
        Cross-validation was performed to avoid overfitting and validate the model's performance.

Results

The model achieved a 100% accuracy on the test set, indicating strong predictive power based on the dataset provided. However, the model should be validated with new or unseen data to ensure its generalizability.

1.How to Run the Project
    Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/mavs230/ai-user-behavior-prediction.git

2.Navigate to the project directory:
cd ai-user-behavior-prediction

3.Install the required dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt

4.Run the project by executing the Python script or Jupyter notebooks provided:
python main.py

View visualizations and results through Jupyter notebooks for better insight into the process.
Files Included:

    main.py: The main script that runs the model and provides predictions.
    requirements.txt: Contains the required Python libraries.
    data/: Placeholder for the dataset (not included due to confidentiality).
    notebooks/: Jupyter notebooks used for experimentation and visualizations.

License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
Contributing

Feel free to submit pull requests to improve the project. Contributions that improve code efficiency, extend functionality, or enhance readability are welcome.
